Izanabe, let’s look at how the
funding went, the different
rounds you had in Onavox.
First tell us how they went sequentially,
how much money went in, what
kind of investors went
in, and so on.
We are therefore reinforcing a little more
what we have learned.
And then what we’re going to do is an
analysis of the mistakes or the things
you would change a posteriori.
It is worth, then, the first round
we raised at Onavox, which is a little
exceptional, because we raised
a round like that of 40,000 euros
before we had anything.
That is, it was 40,000 euros on
PowerPoint, but it is also true
that the team that we assembled
it and I had done exactly the
same thing in another market,
in the market of cosmetics
for Rocket Internet.
Then the proposal was eye, we
just did this, we just launched
this for Rocket Internet in
the cosmetics sector and we’
re going to do the same in another
sector that’s more promising.
Yes, I think it’s very good to clarify
that, because after all the times
we’ve repeated that you can’t go
to a professional investor on
the zero day.
justly.
All you got is because you had
a trajectory, you were in the
sector, you were known by investors
and you were moving a
model that worked in
the industry.
Just go to something in addition
to what we were just doing, that we
were doing at that time and with
demonstrable, clear results.
That is, the incognitoes of skill
and momentum were more cleared
and the team’s capabilities.
That is, it was not possible to see how
this business model was transferred
to another sector, but in that case
the investor considered that
that investment of 40,000 euros
was worthwhile to clear that incognito.
These 40,000 euros were given
to us by Cavietes & Partners
in November 2011 so that we
can be able to launch a website,
fill the first 5,000 boxes and
get the first customers.
We have three months to do this.
We have spent 40,000 euros...
A small mistake, but we spent
20,000 euros on a website, which
then cost us a lot more, but
well, that’s another story.
And the other 20,000 euros we spend
on buying the first 5,000 boxes,
because one of the things you
find when you are very small,
you are a startup that sometimes
needs very small amounts
of things and you find yourself
with a supplier the minimum
order is 5,000 boxes.
That has changed a little, but well.
And the founders asked for a personal
loan of 20,000 euros more, so that
we could survive those three
months and pay the salaries
of the small team we had.
But let’s, we mount it from the
home lounge, total startup history,
working every hour of the
day.
It arrives March 2012 and we
have fulfilled what we had
committed, we launched the web,
filled the first 5,000 boxes, got
the first customers, fulfilled
what we had promised and gave
us 110,000 euros.
The goal of those 110,000 euros is to
start incorporating a little bit of
equipment and validate that we
are able to start capturing more customers.
Beyond those first 15 customers
we had achieved with a lot
of illusion the first month.
To what values?
Let’s take a little picture.
What assessments at that time?
What percentage have you been?
How did you know that what came
in was a venture capital?
It has entered a very...
Cavities & Partners is a mix.
That is, it’s a bit weird because
it’s venture capital, but it’s also
a lot in the business angel sit phase.
I feel like a business angel.
He is a business angel with pockets
deep enough to accompany
afterwards to rounds.
It’s more business angel.
Yes, it’s more business angel, but
then it can get you rounded a lot more.
You can participate in the sector.
In the first round, that round
sit, those 40,000 euros entered a
valuation of half a million euros
because basically following a little
of the sector standard, well,
because we gave that first 20%
that also entered as a convertible note.
That is, it was a participatory
loan that became capital
when those 110,000 euros
entered.
To what evaluation?
Now I don’t know how to say, I don’
t remember, but it has already
risen quite a bit because you realize
that this was in March and in July
of that same year, half a million
euros more came in.
That half a million euros more entered
already the Bertelsmann group,
BDMI, which are Germans, and entered
Ichfan, which is an Italian incubator,
which were then like the two local
parnes that we had to launch
then Italy and Germany.
And these put 250 each more and
there was a little discompaniment
to not dilute after that round
that he had made of 110,000.
This round did not become a series,
but it is true that it was money
already intended to start with
international expansion.
This was in July, in March of
the following year, in March 2013,
Kibo Ventus entered and put, they
put all the investors we had
to not dilute and in that round
entered 750,000 euros.
That 750,000 euros was to open the
markets of France and the UK and to
continue validating the capture channels,
because as we saw in the previous
class, we did the things a
little bit in the reverse.
Before we validated the capture
channels, we started to internationalize
and when we were already
internationalized, it was when
we started to do that process.
And that was the last big round we had.
To what evaluation?
That round was already 10 million valuation.
That was the last one, 10 million per coin.
That was the last big round
because from there it was when
with that money we validated the
capture channels, we achieved
some good metrics of the
metrics we commented, of
a CPA of 15 euros and a costumer
live value of 120 euros.
In addition, as we were able to
recover investment in the month
two, that level of cash flows.
The crack payback was two months.
Two months, both it’s at the level of
cash flow, it was as very interesting,
it was very good.
What problem did we have?
We already had a high
rating.
And, of course, when you were going
to talk to investors, you said, but
how long does this project take?
No, it’s that we’ve been two years
and peak and you saw the
growth curve and it was very
slow, because we’ve discovered
the growth levers very late.
Then, that penalized us very
much and from there we went
raising as survival rounds
of 250 thousand, we got an
Enisa 300 thousand, another
round of 200 thousand.
But we never get up again.
Did you burn a lot of money?
Not at the time, but
we were burning.
That is, at that time we were burning
15, 20, which is not much, that
is, this is heard by someone from
the traditional sector and hands
on the head.
But in the startup world it is not much.
That is, in the startup world burning
15, 20 thousand is not too much
when you have good marketing metrics.
Yes, it is nothing.
What was the problem?
That that money, that those rounds
that were already coming in, 80%
went to survive, not to invest in
marketing.
So we enter a little bit of a vicious
circle of what do I do?
Do I spend this money on capture or do
I spend it on paying the salaries and
having three more months?
Do you know?
In surviving three months more or
we bet everything at once and put it
all in marketing.
I understand that it is part of the
international structure, right?
At that time we had already brought
back the entire structure in
Spain.
Then we had a team of 36 people
in Spain, 11 nationalities,
those were the United Nations,
and that was our main
cost.
Because at the end of the day what we
sold, the brands gave us the products
without cost, we had a cost of logistics,
but well, it was residual.
Here if we do the analysis of
the margin you are getting to each
of the customers, right?
The cost of acquiring customers
goes well and that’s the
gross margin, to say
somehow.
Of course, then the gross margin has
to cover the fixed costs.
and exact.
As far as I can see, I couldn’t cover them.
We didn’t even break up.
We didn’t get to Break Even because
it was an interesting situation.
Spain, Austria, France and Germany
were in Break Even, they were profitable
countries, but we had Italy
and the United Kingdom, which for
different reasons that I tell
you now, were those who were generating
that capital drainage and that
burning of the monthly cash
of 15,000, 20,000 euros.
Italy, because the criterion for
opening Italy was because we had an
investor from Italy and gave us
money to open it.
That this is one of the advice that they
always give you, that they gave me too
and that I did not apply, I hear, because
they give you money you do not
have to take it.
You also have to have a strategic
vision of what you want the money
to do and what you’re going to
use it for.
And the mistake we made here is that
a gentleman from Italy came in and
said I give you 250,000 euros to open
Italy and we chose it and we opened
Italy and already.
And then we realized that Italy,
at that time, was not a country
at all interesting for an e-commerce.
Because the broadband internet
was a very small segment and
online credit card payment was
even smaller.
Given that our market was super
small because they were pregnant
and moms who bought online
and had a middle-high
purchasing level, that
is, our Italian market was
like that.
But we were spending a lot
of money on it and in the
UK it was the opposite.
The United Kingdom was the same as Spain is now.
To get an idea, a
lit in Spain cost
us 40 cents.
In the UK it cost us £3.
Having an effective and efficient
marketing strategy in the UK
cost us a lot of money we didn’t have.
That’s because the capture
channels are more mature or
more saturated.
and exact.
The UK at that time was in
the phase that is now Spain
in which startups already
make television.
Either you are on TV or you are not.
Then there were two markets that one because
it was very expensive and the other because
it was very small.
We were draining and they were
causing us that cost of 15,000
20,000 euros a month of
burning the box.
The question is why did you
not close the UK and Italy and
stay with the viable market.
Here what happened was that as we
have seen in the class of financing
the investors of this type of
investors these venture capital funds
invest in projects in which they
can make one for 10 because
the risk of the rest of the
products in which they invest
is so high that you have to
get out well one in every 10 but
a box closed Italy and closed UK.
It lost European leadership and the
scenario in which it could be
sold for 100 million that was the
10 percent of that 10 million
valuation that we had at that
time without having open the
markets of Italy and the UK was
minimal.
It was a very unlikely scenario.
This is a clear case of how a business
that could have been sustainable,
feasible, viable.
The way to finance it or the
system ended up corrupting it
because you made a valuation at 10
million that was too high,
funds entered and you were already
forced to follow a strategy that
you knew, surely, that was mad
because you were trying to grow in
countries that were absolutely
lastering your accounts,
that if you were your business
and you had not depended on anyone,
you would have chopped Italy, you
would have chopped the UK and
you would have your business
profitable paying 30, 40
salaries, etc., but you were
forced to grow bestially because
it had to be worth
100 million.
Just, it’s that my job as CEO until
almost the end, in the last few
months, my job as CEO was to
increase the company’s valuation,
not increase its revenue.
The strategies you follow and
the decisions you make are
very different.
I worked for if I had to
have good metrics, I had to
have a good customer life
value, but always to the extent
that I allowed to raise more
investors.
Don’t raise more money, not
just raise more money,
if you actually raise money
to higher ratings.
Bigger, of course, because in
the end our goal was to sell
for 100 million euros when an
American giant came and
came to Europe, to be attractive
enough for that giant who came
to buy us or for a Unilever
or a Procter & Gamber or
someone who interested him.
So, until almost the end, my
job as CEO was to increase
valuation, not increase revenue.
That is why the decision to
keep open and to keep both the
UK and Italy.
And it was forcing you, as
we were saying, to make
decisions from a strategic and
common sense point of view.
of contradictions.
The nefasts, who at the end end ended up...
They were stealing the company’
s accounts.
justly.